No, really. Yeah, go ahead. The thing about it is I
have a commitment to my neighbor. Well, we're all
stewardess of this earth. That's what we are. And
God has put it here for us. And we have not been the
right stewardess or the productive stewardess
that God had intended us to be. That is correct. And
I feel, as I heard today in a sermon, that... God is
our father we are all brothers and sisters and what
it is is that we can't we love our earthly parents
sometimes they're good to us and sometimes they
are not but what we learn from these people is very
important and that's what we should carry on in our
teachings is how they learn to seek the good and the
right and how they were stewards we have to be that
way ourselves and the thing about your heritage is
that you have captured in your mind so much about
your family and so much that has to do with being a
human being in this part of the world, in Texas.
Well, I'm telling you that I... And we have to
capture it. Go ahead. When I was just a little
child, I wasn't but three years old when I lived up
back of the field at Grandpa Johnson's. I was
taught responsibility. Now you take a
three-year-old child and say, you get on this
horse and you go across the river and get that mail.
And here's the sack. Put it in it. And if you lose it,
you can't ride your horse again. Well, that horse
was my pride and joy. I didn't lose that mail. I got
it. And how did I get it? Rode right up to that
mailbox. And it was at a culvert, and there was
rails there. So I crawl up on the rails, get the mail
out, bring old Cousy right up to the side of it and
put it in this sack, and then crawl back on my horse
off of the rail. Well, I could have fallen over that
ditch right down in that culvert, and they would
have never found me for a couple of hours or three
hours or however long they'd take that I didn't get
back home. They'd be waiting for me. And I crossed
that river. Would you send a three-year-old kid
today across the street to even pick up a letter?
No. And then they'd pick me up. And my mother would
say, listen, honey, it's time to take your daddy a
bucket of water. I had a little half a gallon
molasses bucket with a lid on it. I walked down that
old sandy land turning road, grass spurs and hot
sand and everything else, but I took the water. I
was taught responsibility. And then when I came
back, my Uncle Jesse, who was an old Confederate
soldier with a wooden leg, and I thought that was
something else to see that wooden leg up there. And
my daddy, Uncle Jesse, was very proud and a smart
man And my daddy taught me a song. Donna's got a
wooden leg long. Donna's got a meat skin laid away.
Degrees that wooden leg twice a day. And Uncle
Jesse just couldn't stand for me to tease him about
his wooden leg. And he'd stomp that wooden leg at
me, and man, I would sail. It would scare me to
death. I would run like a goat. But what closeness
you had. You were so close to your parents, and you
were so close to your uncles and aunts, and the
people that were there. Well, I was the oldest
granddaughter. There was some older grandsons,
but I was the oldest granddaughter on both sides of
the family. And I mean to tell you, the slang
expression is, they laid it on me. And Uncle Jesse
said, now, you're old enough. If you can learn that
song, you're old enough to learn poetry. Mm-hmm.
And when we'd go down the lane to let the cow in in the
afternoon to milk at night, we had to put her in a
pasture and we had to go through the field to do it.
And we'd bring her back. He'd teach me poetry. And I
would have to learn it. And he would say, as the
birds of flower. What kind of a bird is that? I don't
know. He said, now you look at it, and if that bird
would lie in a tree, I'd have to look at it. He said,
now what color does it have? What kind of a head does
it have? You tell me. All right. I learned little
birds and what they were like. And when the first
hummingbird I ever saw, just amused me i just sat
down in the middle of the trail and he didn't move me
for at least an hour because i had never seen a bird
that could fly backwards as well as forwards and it
just amused me to no end and the bill was longer than
the body yeah and i just i just sat and i wondered and
i watched and i looked as we came back up to the house
he said uh
learn me this little poem three years ago i have a
secret just we feed loving and i in the cherry tree
but robin knows it best because he felt so little i
shan't tell the rest i'm a And he laid the four
little somethings in it. Oh, I'm afraid I'll tell
the secret.
But if the robin and the tree don't peep, I'll try my
best this secret to keep. Now that was me at three
years old. Would you get a child sit down this damn
time to listen at three? They're very rare. They
are very rare. They're few and far between. And we
need to go back to that. It's just because parents
don't demand it.
That was Ava Cox.
November 16, 1986,
Johnson City, Texas.
I am happy for one thing, and I'm grateful. I'm
definitely grateful. Because of the fact you
don't find many women my age that are still before
the public to be shot at. And if you don't think that
would be shot at, you're wrong, because there'd be
questions that are being banged from every angle.
And I'm really not a walking encyclopedia, but I'm
a pretty good substitute for not knowing how to say
uh-uh. So we'll go from there. I don't know how long
it's been since I have been giving tours to this
man, but I think it started back in 1973, if I'm not
mistaken. And let me tell you one thing. When you go
back and reminisce and try to find Texas history
notes that you haven't related to another group,
you have to have notes. And I think he will bear me
out on this, that something that I haven't ever had
to refer to was notes. I can pull it out of my head.
But this time, I had to go back and search and
research. Now, I know most of you are like me. You
were taught that Thanksgiving originated in
Massachusetts. That was the first Thanksgiving
the United States ever had.
How many of you were taught differently? Okay, the
first Thanksgiving that Texas ever celebrated
was in 1541
in Palo Duro Canyon.
All right. That's something that we should be
thankful for.
I resent the fact. And of course you can call me a
rebel. I don't care. But I resent the fact that we go
past the Mason-Dixon line to have people write our
Texas history. I think that we should have it
written by people that live in this country and
know it. Well, old Coronado was the man that took
them up there. He was a Spaniard. And when he got to
the canyon, he met a group of Tejas Indians who were
very friendly Indians. And he ordered all of his
men to have a day of Thanksgiving and thank God for
having spared their lives and found a friendly
tribe that would help to show them where to find
plenty of food because they were without
everything. 15 and 41. May the 23rd. So just write
that down in your little book and say, that's one
thing that is right. And when I was at Palo Duro
Canyon this year, I saw the plaque that they put up
there. The United Daughters of the Confederacy.
And thank goodness I'm a member of that. And they
had put this monument up at Palo Duro Canyon.
stating that that was the first Thanksgiving that
was ever held in the United States. Today, another
thing happened. Have you read your paper? At the
parking lot at Galveston, just at Pier 29, the
Zavala battleship for the Texas Navy, they have
found it. And they had a group of Boy Scouts to walk
on the deck to say that they had walked on one of
Texas' most notable battleships. Now, they were
raising money for the battleship Texas to restore
it, and they found the sister ship now, which we
should be very grateful for, for our
thanksgiving. Now, that's two things. Now then,
this is your party. I, uh,
I wonder if, um,
if you,
if you would be interested in knowing, since most,
how many of you are high this thing here? Do you know
where the first electric typewriter was invented
and who did it? Or where it came from? IBM in
Wisconsin. That's what you think. That's right.
IBM in Wisconsin. For sure and certain, a fellow by
the name of James Smathers that lives about 60
miles U.S. Northwestern here in Llano, Texas,
invented the first electric time driver. He sold
his patent
to the International Business Machine
Corporation of New York.
And that was in 1949.
And he died in 1967. Excuse
me. But I think that would be good for you to know
right under here. Now, every one of us, and I know
you know it, always says Texas has six counties.
Texas under 69.
Excuse me, have any of you ever heard of it ever
being anything else but six
flags? It was a seven. And that flag was white and
red and green. And it flew over Laredo. And it was
called the capital of the rivalry of Texas. That's
the seventh way. That's the seventh capital of
Texas. So that's just something that you can put
down in a little book. Was it another, what they
were saying, a little country? It was established
as a republic before Texas was ever granted
anything. And before Texas was ever won her
independence from Mexico, A man by the name of J.M.
Gorley.
He was over here at Blanco, 15 miles south of here.
Decided that everybody was going to New Mexico out
there and picking up land grants.
So J.M. Gorley lived here and went to Texline. and
he took up a land there. And you can go back to the
encyclopedia and it'll tell you that. And I got
this out of the archives. He's the largest
landowner in the United States. A Blanco County
man. As look and life called us, country Hoosiers
and hillbillies. Well, he is a good old hill man,
about 15 miles from here. And he has 8,000,
not 800, 8,000 heads of fine cattle. He had his own
school, his own post office, his own church, and
his own commissary. Larger than the King Ranch,
Texas. Came from Blanco County. Shoot again. Tell
me a little bit about what it was like for you when
you were going up there. Oh, that was rough. No, we
had no electricity. We didn't have electricity
until 1943. And I was one of the first, well, I
factored in this is, the first billing clerk when I
was elected to office. And at one time, that was the
largest rural electrification in the United
States and the cheapest rural electrification in
the world. And until the Tennessee Valley
Authority came in, It was still at large, but they
they are more densely populated than we are here.
Oh, 43. Good. Just, uh, talk Tennessee Valley.
You're talking about the Roseville town. Yeah.
Up to this date. So far as I know, I'm the oldest
living employer. All right, but talking back when
I grew up here, this field out here was cotton. And
Linda and I picked cotton. And if you can see, I
don't know whether you can see, but right up yonder
is a windmill. And there's a thing, that little
frame. But he didn't have that windmill there.
That was put there in the 50s. But this ditch right
here was not. And from that old tree was a rope. And
we had to bring our cotton in from the field. And on
this old limb that hangs over this way, on this tree
was where the wagon was. And we'd have to weigh our
cotton up there. And we'd get on that rope. And we'd
swing back and forth across that water and get our
clothes wet so it wouldn't be so hot when we'd go
back to put cotton. Barefooting, bull nettles out
there and steaming, grass birds out there and
getting your feet. It sure wasn't much fun. We
started back out across that patch one day, and I
said, gee, I wish to goodness I didn't have this to
do. My back is just killing me. Lyndon said to me,
President Johnson, I say Lyndon because it's hard
for me to say President Johnson. But President
Johnson said to me, he said, what are you going to do
when you grow up? And I said, well, I don't know what
I'm going to do. I said, what are you going to do? He
said, well, there's an easier way to make a living
than farming, I'll tell you that. And I said, well,
I'm going to tell you one thing. I think I'll marry
the first guy that comes along, just so he isn't a
farmer, just to keep him having a business. So,
honest to goodness, that's what I did, and that was
a garageman, which sure didn't help the business,
but it still works. Now, we picked cotton right
over there, and this was my grandmother's home.
And this cabin over here was built in 1850, 1868, by
my grandfather. And she was kept under that. This,
over 100 years ago, was much higher off the ground,
boys and girls, as it is now. The dirt has washed
under it and everything. And the Comanche Indians
were quite prevalent. And I won't tell you, they
were prevalent here in 1910.
You're a little girl riding horseback, come down
the road, and you look over the hill, and you see a
bunch of Indians coming. What do you think you'd
do? Run. Run? I didn't. I was on that horse, and I
don't tell you right now, I took that horse, and I
took that old horse from her head to her toes. And we
didn't open gates. We went right over. Yeah, tell
them about that, you and Linda didn't open that
gate. Well, we didn't. And, uh, Lennon didn't, as
the Dutchman says, Lennon didn't get to speed up
like he should. We were coming down this thing, and
he really didn't put the, as my daddy used to say,
put the bud to this old man, make her get going. And
he just kind of gigged her along, and she was just
loping. He got to this gate and was supposed to jump
it, and I was on a buckskin horse, you know what that
is, that's a Spanish pony with black rings around
his hind legs and goes, you want to watch those
because they're sure nothing. And anyway, we was
coming down that road just not even looking and I
just quit mine from one end to the other and we just
went over and flying. Old Lennon got there, this
old man, she jumped and hung her hind leg in that
gate and tore the top slat off and knocked it off the
hinges and broke the light. Oh, just messed it up
her too. And so we went on and That's my set. By the
time we got through with supper, well, this
telephone rang. This old fellow said, is this the
Tom Johnson residence? My daddy says, yes, Mr.
King, what's the matter? He said, well, do you know
what your children's done this evening? My daddy
said, no, there's not a bit of telling, just what
did they do? He said, well, I want to tell you one
thing. They did do something very, very nasty. And
Papa said, oh my goodness, just what in the world
was that? Well, they drove that horse right over
that gate and just pulled it to splinters. And
you're going to have to go clear the
Fredericksburg and get that lumber and fix it
tomorrow. And sure enough, you know what
happened. It was kangaroo porn. And didn't any of
us want to tell him whose course it was? And Daddy
went to the barn, and he soon found out. And he came
back, and you know a razor strap was not good for
honing razors, but it sure was good for putting a
finishing touch on a boy and a girl. And we got it.
And I mean a full dose of it. And he just called us up.
We just wouldn't tell him. We just wouldn't tell on
one another. And, well, he told us not to ride cabs,
too, one day. And that's the only thing we had to
entertain ourselves with. Riding cabs and riding
horses and breaking things. And we got to be all of
our own. And there's a stop in the cabin. So we go
out. And we didn't have a surf sampler. You know
what a surf sampler is, don't you? One of those
things you put on a calf or to hold on to, a rope or
something to hold on while you ride. And daddy had
some good ones. And the tugs was made out of real
leather. And we took that thing and had a braving
machine. We cut one of those tugs off and made it
just to fit these calves. and took the lines, and
Bradley just a handle on it. Boy, we had everything
just a boy rosy. Mom and Daddy were in town, and we
had eight, eight calves in there. Their mothers
had worms, and we had them pitting up their
wormies, and their mother was, they were not. And
we had them in this pen, and there were seven riders
and eight calves. And so, well, I got on this one,
Well, he threw me so high it takes 20 cents to send me
a postcard. Anyway, and I landed right on this
stump. On the stump. On your stump. And yeah, it
hurt. It really hurt. And I got up and I grunted and
grunted and went over and sat down. And I said, he
just grunted. It just really hurt. Well, anyway,
we come time to eat supper that night. They all went
in, and I just, I hurt so bad, and my side just was
killing me, and I just, I just couldn't sit there at
that table and eat a bunch of brown beans and
cornbread. That's all I had, and I just couldn't
make it going. Lemon came out, and he sunk. What am I
going to tell him? He's going to ask. I say, well,
you just tell him I'm studying. I'm busy. I'll go
bring him my geography book. He goes and gets the
geography book and brings it out to me. I'm sitting
on a porch, a great long porch like this. And I just
busied myself reading that thing. I just hurt so
bad. I just couldn't hardly stand it. So long in the
night, I said, oh, man, I hurt so bad. Man, I
vomited. Man, that time I vomited up some blood.
That kind of scared me, kind of scared a little me.
Scared Marguerite, that's my sister. Boy, they
had a conflict. We often, the other room, the
daughter tried to put him on top of the room over
here and I was over there. So we held a conference
just now. What are we going to do? What are we going
to tell them? Who's going to tell them? We're not
going to tell them. So we went. Next day, I had such
high fever. We lived ten miles out of town. had a
hack to tape them in, so mama put me in the back of the
hack, put me down, and said, she sure, said, Dr.
Barnwell, I sure do believe that she has
appendicitis. Her side hurts so bad. She never
looked at me. I never pulled my gown up to let her see
or anything. Oh, the eyes and all that. Yeah, a bit
of it, just gray. And it was blue, oh, it was black. I
was just And here I'm just black and blue. And got me
in there. And he said, oh, says, this girl's had a
terrible accident. Something's happened.
What's wrong? But says, I'll tell you one thing.
We're going to have to go in there. She's going to
have to be out there. Don't let all this blood out
and clean this thing up. All that has to be done now,
it's got to be done now. And then Margaret was out in
this hole. And man, they began to scream and cry.
And I said, well, what in the world's wrong with
you? Then they told what had happened. And asked
Dr. . He said, well, I don't have it. I don't know how
serious it is. When we get down there, we'll find
out. But I said, it's serious. And he said, if she
don't have any complications, she'll make it. And
I said, well, that's just one of those things.
Well, they knew I was going to die. And they began to
cry and cry and cry and beg. any way he operated on
him and I stayed in
that hospital about two weeks that didn't break me
from riding but he broke me from telling him that's
just one of the things let's talk a little bit about
Kevin here about how it got started, how your
grandfather came into this country? This, this
cabin was built.
This cabin was built in 1854 by a man by the name of
Provo. And he had taken up this land and taken 225
acres of land. It didn't have a floor in it. And it
didn't have a Well, we had a brush arbor out here for
a porch for him to sit on. And my grandfather came
here in 1858 and bought it from Tobolsk. And he took
up land. He bought 600 acres. for 50 cents an acre.
50 cents an acre. Did you get that? All right. And he
had access to all of the land from here north
out here for 10 miles that was not things. And the
600 acres lay back this way. So you can say that he
had a spread of land, access to it. And that's when
he started in buying cattle. And so when the Civil
War came on, he left and went to the Civil War. He
married my grandmother, who was a native of
Russellville,
Kentucky. And her oldest brother, was governor of
Kentucky. And they moved down here to Buda,
grandmother and her parents. And he married
grandmother and came back up here and took over
this